Add Knowledge Base docs (#13)
optakt/optakt.github.io: content/knowledge_base/glossary.md

# Glossary

## General Blockchain Concepts

### Consensus

TODO: add

### Blockchain

TODO: add

### Gossip Algorithms

TODO: add

### Liveness Threshold

The number of malicious participants that can be tolerated before the consensus protocol stops functioning.

### Nakamoto Type of Consensus

TODO: introduce (for BTC)

> A consensus algorithm that provides a probabilistic safety guarantee; its decisions may revet with some probability ε.

Reviewer: I guess you meant

```suggestion
A consensus algorithm that provides a probabilistic safety guarantee; its decisions may revert with some probability `ε`.
```

? Also when the variable is not used later in this context, I'm not sure that it makes sense to say `with some probability ε`. Do you plan on using that variable later on?

Author: Generally yes, if there are any technical parts, but I do not have anything specific in mind.

Author: Corrected https://github.com/optakt/optakt.github.io/pull/13/commits/48a7f92c1e451ec49d7b7f2cb79fa55a85a83a48#diff-55a59bbede67c988e24e88ffb8a7b56d20454b9ab95a3fd8567e790585338dfbR24
Thanks!

A permissionless protocol allowing each node to join or leave the system at any time.
TODO: finish

### Safety

TODO: add

## Avalanche Concepts

### Ancestor Set

TODO: add

### Chit

> A transaction receives a chit (boolean value) when the majority (quorum) of queried nodes respond with an approval for that transaction.

Reviewer: If it is a boolean value, then wherever it is used in the Avalanche specification document, we should refer to its value as true or false rather than one or zero. WDYT?

Reviewer 2: Agree with that, its easier to understand that way. And in here you can refer as true = 1 and false = 0, WDYT?

Author: Yes, it makes sense, I'll change that
Thanks!

Reviewer: I saw that afterwards yes, it makes sense then 👍

### Confidence

> The sum of transaction/vertex's decendants cihts and its own chit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The sum of transaction/vertex's descendants chits and its own chit.
```

Author: Corrected https://github.com/optakt/optakt.github.io/pull/13/commits/61b85c5e0950be3abad52758afe63ae3a1f8c2e2#diff-55a59bbede67c988e24e88ffb8a7b56d20454b9ab95a3fd8567e790585338dfbR88
Thanks!

The chit value is a result of a one-time query for its associated transaction and becomes immutable afterwards.

> Because chit values can be 0 or 1 - c ∈ {0,1} confidence values are monotonic.

Reviewer: So, true or false? Or do we use 0/1 because it is used in mathematical operations?

```suggestion
Because chit values can be `0` or `1` — `c ∈ {0,1}` confidence values are monotonic.
```

Author: It is used to sum the chits of multiple transactions in the grapth path
Corrected the quotation here https://github.com/optakt/optakt.github.io/pull/13/commits/48a7f92c1e451ec49d7b7f2cb79fa55a85a83a48#diff-55a59bbede67c988e24e88ffb8a7b56d20454b9ab95a3fd8567e790585338dfbR88
Thanks!

### Consecutive Success Number

The number of times a transaction or its decendant received an approval from majority (quorum) of queried nodes.
TODO: add more thorough description

### Progeny

TODO: add

### Slush

TODO: add

## Other

### Graph

TODO: introduce the idea in one sentence without technicals

> A graph is pair of sets G = (V, E).

Reviewer: I feel like this section about the simple graph could simply be a Wikipedia link or something similar? I'm not sure it brings value for us to define what a graph is in our knowledge base since it is not very specific to our domain IMO, and most people already know about it.

Defining the directed graph makes a lot of sense to me though.

Author: The wikipedia description of the graph is not clear and full, I'll find another one

Author: Removed the definition and added a link that will do https://github.com/optakt/optakt.github.io/pull/13/commits/d9b5fd4dbe3d581029770f925beabfad5d4608bc#diff-55a59bbede67c988e24e88ffb8a7b56d20454b9ab95a3fd8567e790585338dfbR109
But I still dont like it ...

V is a set of elements called vertices (singular: vertex) and E is a set of paired vertices and its elements are called edges.
An edge {x, y} contains vertices x and y and they are its endpoints.
A vertex may belong to no edge and in that case it is not joined to any other vertex.
The set of vertices in a graph is a discrete value, meaning the set of edges is also a discrete value.
The number of vertices - |V| is the "order" of the graph and the number of edges - |E| is the "size" of the graph.

### Directed Graph

> A directed graph comprises of set of vertices connected by "directed" edges - also called arcs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A directed graph comprises of set of vertices connected by "directed" edges — also called arcs.
```

Tip: The em-dash can be written easily by typing `ALT+0151` :p Very useful for large documents like this hehe.

Author: Corrected https://github.com/optakt/optakt.github.io/pull/13/commits/48a7f92c1e451ec49d7b7f2cb79fa55a85a83a48#diff-55a59bbede67c988e24e88ffb8a7b56d20454b9ab95a3fd8567e790585338dfbR120
I didn't know that, will be useful to me, Thanks!

> A directed graph is represented as a pair of sets G = (V, A), where

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A directed graph is represented as a pair of sets `G = (V, A)`, where:
```

Author: Corrected https://github.com/optakt/optakt.github.io/pull/13/commits/48a7f92c1e451ec49d7b7f2cb79fa55a85a83a48#diff-55a59bbede67c988e24e88ffb8a7b56d20454b9ab95a3fd8567e790585338dfbR121
Thanks!

> * V is a set of elements (vertices, nodes)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `V` is a set of elements (vertices, nodes)
```

Author: Corrected https://github.com/optakt/optakt.github.io/pull/13/commits/48a7f92c1e451ec49d7b7f2cb79fa55a85a83a48#diff-55a59bbede67c988e24e88ffb8a7b56d20454b9ab95a3fd8567e790585338dfbR123
Thanks!

> * A is a set of ordered pairs of vertices, called arcs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `A` is a set of ordered pairs of vertices, called _arcs_
```

Author: Corrected here https://github.com/optakt/optakt.github.io/pull/13/commits/48a7f92c1e451ec49d7b7f2cb79fa55a85a83a48#diff-55a59bbede67c988e24e88ffb8a7b56d20454b9ab95a3fd8567e790585338dfbR124
Thanks!

### Directed Acyclic Graph (DAG)

> A [Directed Acyclic Graph](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Directed_acyclic_graph) contains no directed cycles - each edge is directed from one vertex to another such that following those directions will never form a closed loop.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A [Directed Acyclic Graph](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Directed_acyclic_graph) contains no directed cycles — each edge is directed from one vertex to another such that following those directions never forms a closed loop.
```

Author: Corrected here https://github.com/optakt/optakt.github.io/pull/13/commits/48a7f92c1e451ec49d7b7f2cb79fa55a85a83a48#diff-55a59bbede67c988e24e88ffb8a7b56d20454b9ab95a3fd8567e790585338dfbR128
Thanks!

A directed graph is a DAG if and only if it can be topolgically ordered by arranging the vertices as a linear ordering that is consistent with all edge directions.
A toplogical ordering of a directed graph is an ordering of its vertices into a sequence, such that for every edge the start vertex of the edge occurs earlier in the sequence than the ending vertex of the edge.
A graph that has a topological ordering does not have any cycles, consequently every graph with a topological ordering is acyclic.
Every acyclic directed graph has at least one topological ordering.

### Distributed System

> A system of computers connected by a network - local, hub-based or wide, that work together as one single computer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A system of computers connected by a network — local, hub-based or wide, that work together as one single computer.
```

Author: Fixed here https://github.com/optakt/optakt.github.io/pull/13/commits/48a7f92c1e451ec49d7b7f2cb79fa55a85a83a48#diff-55a59bbede67c988e24e88ffb8a7b56d20454b9ab95a3fd8567e790585338dfbR136
Thanks!

> Applications built with distributed systems "apear" to users and other client applications as if they are running on a single machine.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Applications built with distributed systems appear to users and other client applications as if they are running on a single machine.
```

Author: Corrected here https://github.com/optakt/optakt.github.io/pull/13/commits/48a7f92c1e451ec49d7b7f2cb79fa55a85a83a48#diff-55a59bbede67c988e24e88ffb8a7b56d20454b9ab95a3fd8567e790585338dfbR137
Thanks!

> Distributed systems take advantage of each node's physical and virtual resources (horizontal scalability), minimize overload of the whole system and can have architecture aiming to achieve a certain performance level, speed or other characteristic levels needed for the application running to overcome.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Distributed systems take advantage of each node's physical and virtual resources (horizontal scalability), minimize overload of the whole system and can be designed to achieve a certain performance level, speed or other characteristic levels needed for the application running to overcome.
```

WDYT?

Author: This is better, added it here https://github.com/optakt/optakt.github.io/pull/13/commits/48a7f92c1e451ec49d7b7f2cb79fa55a85a83a48#diff-55a59bbede67c988e24e88ffb8a7b56d20454b9ab95a3fd8567e790585338dfbR138
Thanks!

### Partition of a Set

> Partiotion of a set is grouping of its elements into non-empty subsets, in such a way that every element is included in exactly one subset.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A set's partition is a group of its elements into non-empty subsets, in such a way that every element is included in exactly one subset.
```

Author: Fixed typo here https://github.com/optakt/optakt.github.io/pull/13/commits/48a7f92c1e451ec49d7b7f2cb79fa55a85a83a48#diff-55a59bbede67c988e24e88ffb8a7b56d20454b9ab95a3fd8567e790585338dfbR142
Thanks!

### Transitive Relation

A set T with elements a, b, c, d -> A{a, b, c, d}
A relation R on the elements of X that relates
a to b,
b to c,
c to d
but also relates
a to c,
a to d,
b to d

> is called transitive.

Reviewer: I would suggest using inline code blocks for each variable/equation in general, as it makes documentation much more readable. It's easy to see what is a work and what is a variable/equation.  For example, in a sentence if you have a variable called a, since _a_ is also a word in English (used many times throughout this comment alone :p) it can get really confusing for readers.

Author: Edited it here: https://github.com/optakt/optakt.github.io/pull/13/commits/d9b5fd4dbe3d581029770f925beabfad5d4608bc#diff-55a59bbede67c988e24e88ffb8a7b56d20454b9ab95a3fd8567e790585338dfbR135
Looks cleared now, WDYT?

> #### Example of a transitive relation R

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Example of a Transitive Relation `R`
```

Author: Corrected https://github.com/optakt/optakt.github.io/pull/13/commits/61b85c5e0950be3abad52758afe63ae3a1f8c2e2#diff-55a59bbede67c988e24e88ffb8a7b56d20454b9ab95a3fd8567e790585338dfbR157
Thanks!

A -> ancestor of B
B -> ancestor of C
=> A -> ancestor of C

```text
A ──> B ──> C => A ──> C

> ```

Reviewer: Same here

> #### Example of a non-transitive relation R

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Example of a Non-Transitive Relation `R`
```

Author: Corrected https://github.com/optakt/optakt.github.io/pull/13/commits/61b85c5e0950be3abad52758afe63ae3a1f8c2e2#diff-55a59bbede67c988e24e88ffb8a7b56d20454b9ab95a3fd8567e790585338dfbR167
Thanks!

A -> ancestor of B
B -> ancestor of C
A -> ancestor of D
=> D is NOT an ancestor of C

```text
A
├──> B ──> C
└──> D
```

The inverse of a transtive relation is always transitive.

> See also [Homogeneous Relation](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Binary_relation#Homogeneous_relation)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See also [Homogeneous Relation](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Binary_relation#Homogeneous_relation).
```

Author: This is corrected https://github.com/optakt/optakt.github.io/pull/13/commits/61b85c5e0950be3abad52758afe63ae3a1f8c2e2#diff-55a59bbede67c988e24e88ffb8a7b56d20454b9ab95a3fd8567e790585338dfbR181
Thanks!

### Transitive Closuse of a Graph

> A transitive [closure](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Closure_(mathematics)) of a directed graph G is a directed graph G' with an edge (i, j) correspoding to each directed path from i to j in G. The resultant directed graph G' representation in the form of the adjancecy matrix is called the connectivity matrix.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A transitive [closure](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Closure_(mathematics)) of a directed graph `G` is a directed graph `G'` with an edge `(i, j)` corresponding to each directed path from `i` to `j` in `G`. The resultant directed graph `G'` representation in the form of the adjacency matrix is called the _connectivity matrix_.
```

Author: Fixed https://github.com/optakt/optakt.github.io/pull/13/commits/61b85c5e0950be3abad52758afe63ae3a1f8c2e2#diff-55a59bbede67c988e24e88ffb8a7b56d20454b9ab95a3fd8567e790585338dfbR185
Thanks!

# Glossary

## General Blockchain Concepts

### Consensus

TODO: add

### Blockchain

TODO: add

### Gossip Algorithms

TODO: add

### Liveness Threshold

The number of malicious participants that can be tolerated before the consensus protocol stops functioning.

### Nakamoto Type of Consensus

TODO: introduce (for BTC)
A consensus algorithm that provides a probabilistic safety guarantee; its decisions may revert with some probability `ε`.
A permissionless protocol allowing each node to join or leave the system at any time.
TODO: finish

### Safety

TODO: add

### Transaction

Transactions are data structures that encode the transfer of value between participants in the blockchain system.
A transaction consumes previously recorded unspent transaction outputs and creates new transaction output(s) that can be consumed by future transactions.

> This is the way in whhich chunks of value move forward from one owner to the next one in the blockchain network.

Author: Fixed https://github.com/optakt/optakt.github.io/pull/13/commits/30bbcc04d9918430de67e7a676ea9b06512f1211#diff-55a59bbede67c988e24e88ffb8a7b56d20454b9ab95a3fd8567e790585338dfbR36
Thanks!

Because chit values can be `0` or `1` — `c ∈ {0,1}` confidence values are monotonic.

### Consecutive Success Number

The number of times a transaction or its decendant received an approval from majority (quorum) of queried nodes.
TODO: add more thorough description

### Progeny

TODO: add

### Slush

TODO: add

## Other

### Directed Graph

A directed [graph](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Graph_(discrete_mathematics)) comprises of set of vertices connected by "directed" edges — also called arcs.
A directed graph is represented as a pair of sets `G = (V, A)`, where:

* `V` is a set of elements (vertices, nodes)
* `A` is a set of ordered pairs of vertices, called _arcs_

### Directed Acyclic Graph (DAG)

A [Directed Acyclic Graph](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Directed_acyclic_graph) contains no directed cycles — each edge is directed from one vertex to another such that following those directions never forms a closed loop.
A directed graph is a DAG if and only if it can be topolgically ordered by arranging the vertices as a linear ordering that is consistent with all edge directions.

> A toplogical ordering of a directed graph is an ordering of its vertices into a sequence, such that for every edge the start vertex of the edge occurs earlier in the sequence than the ending vertex of the edge.

Author: Fixed https://github.com/optakt/optakt.github.io/pull/13/commits/30bbcc04d9918430de67e7a676ea9b06512f1211#diff-55a59bbede67c988e24e88ffb8a7b56d20454b9ab95a3fd8567e790585338dfbR129-R130
Thanks!

### Partition of a Set

A set's partition is a group of its elements into non-empty subsets, in such a way that every element is included in exactly one subset.

### Transitive Relation

For a set `T` with elements `a`, `b`, `c`, `d`

```text
A{a, b, c, d}
```

A relation `R` on the elements of the set that relates `a` to `b`, `b` to `c` and `c` to `d`, but also relates `a` to `c`, `a` to `d` and `b` to `d` is called transitive.

```text
a -> b, b -> c, c -> d
AND
a -> c, a -> d, b -> d
```

#### Example of a Transitive Relation `R`

```text
A -> ancestor of B
B -> ancestor of C

=> A -> ancestor of C
```

```text
A ──> B ──> C => A ──> C
```

#### Example of a Non-Transitive Relation `R`

A -> ancestor of B
B -> ancestor of C
A -> ancestor of D
=> D is NOT an ancestor of C

```text
A
├──> B ──> C
└──> D
```

The inverse of a transtive relation is always transitive.
See also [Homogeneous Relation](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Binary_relation#Homogeneous_relation).

> ### Transitive Closuse of a Graph

Author: Fixed https://github.com/optakt/optakt.github.io/pull/13/commits/30bbcc04d9918430de67e7a676ea9b06512f1211#diff-55a59bbede67c988e24e88ffb8a7b56d20454b9ab95a3fd8567e790585338dfbR189
Thanks!

# Glossary

## Add a subheading

### Ancestor Set

TODO: add

### Chit

> In Avalanche context: a transaction receives a chit (boolean value) when the majority (quorum) of queried nodes respond with an approval for that transaction.

Reviewer: If some terms of the glossary are within a given context, I would make them subsections of a section named like that context. For example here, I would have this entry as part of 

```markdown
# Glossary

## Avalanche

[Something about what is avalanche etc.]

### Chit

[What is a Chit in Avalanche]
```

WDYT?

Author: This makes sense yes; Since we are having multiple topics with definitions
Thanks!

Author: Added the logical separation in sections https://github.com/optakt/optakt.github.io/pull/13/commits/47d47376667d886f5b56d7bfcd03e1f14a6086b0#diff-55a59bbede67c988e24e88ffb8a7b56d20454b9ab95a3fd8567e790585338dfbR3-R4
Do they seem reasonable to you?

Reviewer: Yeah I like it :) I think it will be much clearer this way! Thanks.
